First draft of the sign up guide (#5)
excid3/rails: guides/source/sign_up.md

**DO NOT READ THIS FILE ON GITHUB, GUIDES ARE PUBLISHED ON <https://guides.rubyonrails.org>.**

> Sign Up and Registration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sign Up and Settings
```

========================

> This guide covers adding Sign Up and Registration to the store e-commerce application in the [Getting Started Guide](getting_started.html)). We will use the final code from that guide as a starting place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide covers adding Sign Up, Registration, and User Settings to the store e-commerce application in the [Getting Started Guide](getting_started.html)). We will use the final code from that guide as a starting place.
```

Reviewer: Does that cover it properly?

> This guide covers adding Sign Up and Registration to the store e-commerce application in the [Getting Started Guide](getting_started.html)). We will use the final code from that guide as a starting place.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide covers adding Sign Up and Settings to the store e-commerce application in the [Getting Started Guide](getting_started.html)). We will use the final code from that guide as a starting place.
```

> After reading this guide, you will know:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After reading this guide, you will know how to:
```

Reviewer: To reduce all the "how to"s that come later

* How to add Sign Up

> * How to rate limit controller actions

Reviewer: Is this how you say it, or would it be better to say something like:
Apply rate limits to controller actions

Author: ```suggestion
* Rate limit controller actions
```

> * How to create a nested layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a nested layout
```

> * How to separate controllers by role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Separate controllers by role (users and admins)
```

> * How to write tests for users with different roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Write tests for users with different roles
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduction
------------

One of the most common features to add to any application is a sign up process for registering new users. The e-commerce application we've built so far only has authentication and users must be created in the Rails console or a script.

> This feature is a required foundation for adding other features. For example, to let users create wishlists, they will need to be able to sign up first before they can create a wishlist associated with their account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is required before we can add other features. For example, to let users create wishlists, they will need to be able to sign up first before they can create a wishlist associated with their account.
```

Let's get started!

Adding Sign Up
--------------

We've already used the Rails authentication generator to allow users to login to their accounts. The generator created a `User` model with `email_address:string` and `password_digest:string` columns in the database. It also added `has_secure_password` to the `User` model which handles passwords and confirmations. This takes care of most of what we need to add sign up to our application.

### Adding Names To Users

> One other feature we probably want for users is to collect their name on sign up. Let's start by adding `first_name` and `last_name` columns to the database.

Reviewer: It's also a good idea to collect the user's name at sign up. This allows us to personalize their experience and address them directly in the view. Let's start by adding `first_name` and `last_name` columns to the database.

In the terminal, create a migration with these columns:

```bash
$ rails g migration AddNamesToUsers first_name:string last_name:string
```

Then migrate the database:

```bash
$ rails db:migrate
```

> We can also add validations to require these name fields on every `User`. We'll also want to display the user's full name so let's add a method to combine `first_name` and `last_name` too.

Reviewer: Let's also add a method to combine `first_name` and `last_name`, so that we can display the user's full name.

Open `app/models/user.rb` and add the following:

```ruby#7-11
class User < ApplicationRecord
  has_secure_password
  has_many :sessions, dependent: :destroy

  normalizes :email_address, with: ->(e) { e.strip.downcase }

  validates :first_name, :last_name, presence: true

  def full_name
    "#{first_name} #{last_name}"
  end
end
```

Next, let's add sign up so we can register new users.

### Sign Up Routes & Controller

We now have all the necessary columns in our database to register new users. The next step is to create a route for sign up and the matching controller.

In `config/routes.rb`, let's add a resource for sign up:

```ruby#3
resource :session
resources :passwords, param: :token
resource :sign_up
```

We're using a singular resource here because we want a singular route for `/sign_up`.

> This route directs requests to `app/controllers/sign_ups_controller.rb` so let's create that now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This route directs requests to `app/controllers/sign_ups_controller.rb` so let's create that controller now.
```

Reviewer: Is app/controllers/sign_ups_controller.rb created automatically or do they need to create the controller file first? (I believe the latter.)

```ruby
class SignUpsController < ApplicationController
  def show
    @user = User.new
  end
end
```

> We're using the `show` action to create a new `User` instance to display the sign up form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're using the `show` action to create a new `User` instance, which will be used to display the sign up form.
```

> Let's create the form next at `app/views/sign_ups/show.html.erb`:

Reviewer: Again, do they need to create the file first or is it automatic? (Asking because I honestly forget.)

```erb
<h1>Sign Up</h1>

<%= form_with model: @user, url: sign_up_path do |form| %>
  <% if form.object.errors.any? %>
    <div>Error: <%= form.object.errors.full_messages.first %></div>
  <% end %>

  <div>
    <%= form.label :first_name %>
    <%= form.text_field :first_name, required: true, autofocus: true, autocomplete: "given-name" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.label :last_name %>
    <%= form.text_field :last_name, required: true, autocomplete: "family-name" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.label :email_address %>
    <%= form.email_field :email_address, required: true, autocomplete: "email" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.label :password %>
    <%= form.password_field :password, required: true, autocomplete: "new-password" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.label :password_confirmation %>
    <%= form.password_field :password_confirmation, required: true, autocomplete: "new-password" %>
  </div>

  <div>
    <%= form.submit "Sign up" %>
  </div>
<% end %>
```

> This form collects the user's name, email, and password. We're using the `autocomplete` attribute to suggest to the browser the content requested for these fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This form collects the user's name, email, and password. We're using the `autocomplete` attribute to help the browser suggest the values for these fields based on the user's saved information.
```

"suggest to the browser the content requested" sounds a bit strange, even if it is technically correct.  Or does it help the browser suggest?

> You'll also notice we set `url: sign_up_path` in the form alongside `model: @user`. Without the `url:` argument, `form_with` would see we have a `User` and send the form to `/users`. Since we want the form to submit to `/sign_up`, the `url:` argument tells the form exactly where to submit the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll also notice we set `url: sign_up_path` in the form alongside `model: @user`. Without this `url:` argument, `form_with` would see we have a `User` and send the form to `/users` by default. Since we want the form to submit to `/sign_up`, we set the `url:` to override the default route.
```

Back in `app/controllers/sign_ups_controller.rb` we can handle the form submission by adding the `create` action.

```ruby#6-19
class SignUpsController < ApplicationController
  def show
    @user = User.new
  end

  def create
    @user = User.new(sign_up_params)
    if @user.save
      start_new_session_for(@user)
      redirect_to root_path
    else
      render :show, status: :unprocessable_entity
    end
  end

  private
    def sign_up_params
      params.expect(user: [ :first_name, :last_name, :email_address, :password, :password_confirmation ])
    end
end
```

> The `create` action assign parameters and attempts to save the user to the database. If successful, it logs the user in and redirects to `root_path`, otherwise it re-renders the form with errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `create` action assigns parameters and attempts to save the user to the database. If successful, it logs the user in and redirects to `root_path`, otherwise it re-renders the form with errors.
```

> One last fix we need to make is restricting `SignUpsController` to unauthenticated users only. Let's do that by adding a helper to the `Authentication` module in `app/controllers/concerns/authentication.rb`.

Reviewer: Maybe a quick note about why we'd do this? Is it to prevent someone from signing up for duplicate accounts?

```ruby#14-17
module Authentication
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    before_action :require_authentication
    helper_method :authenticated?
  end

  class_methods do
    def allow_unauthenticated_access(**options)
      skip_before_action :require_authentication, **options
    end

    def unauthenticated_access_only(**options)
      allow_unauthenticated_access **options
      before_action -> { redirect_to root_path if authenticated? }, **options
    end

    # ...
```

The `unauthenticated_only_access` class method can be used in any controller where we want to restrict actions to unauthenticated users only.

We can then use this method at the top of `SignUpsController`.

```ruby#2
class SignUpsController < ApplicationController
  unauthenticated_access_only

  # ...
end
```

### Rate Limiting Sign Up

> Our application will be accessible on the Internet so we're bound to have malicious bots and users trying to spam our application. We can add rate limiting to sign up to slow down anyone submitting too many requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our application will be accessible on the internet so we're bound to have malicious bots and users trying to spam our application. We can add rate limiting to sign up to slow down anyone submitting too many requests.
```

If there's a reason to keep internet capitalized let me know! Otherwise, lower case.

Rails makes this easy with the [`rate_limit`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionController/RateLimiting/ClassMethods.html) method in controllers.

```ruby#3
class SignUpsController < ApplicationController
  unauthenticated_only_access
  rate_limit to: 10, within: 3.minutes, only: :create, with: -> { redirect_to sign_up_path, alert: "Try again later." }

  # ...
end
```

This will block any form submissions that happen more than 10 times within 3 minutes.

> Editing Passwords

Reviewer: Should this section header cover all user settings?

-----------------

> Now that users can login, we should create a few places for users to update their profile, password, email address and other settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that users can login, let's create all the usual places that users would expect to update their profile, password, email address, and other settings.
```

### Using Namespaces

The Rails authentication generator already created `app/controllers/passwords_controller.rb` and uses this controller for password resets. This means we need to use a different controller for editing passwords of authenticated users.

> To prevent conflicts, we can use a feature called namespaces. A namespace organizes routes, controllers, and views into folders and helps prevent conflicts like our two passwords controllers.

Reviewer: like our two passwords controllers
or 
like our two password controllers
?

We'll create a namespace called "Settings" to separate out the user and store settings from the rest of our application.

In `config/routes.rb` we can add the Settings namespace along with a resource for editing passwords:

```ruby
namespace :settings do
  resource :password, only: [:show, :update]
end
```

This will generate a route for `/settings/password` for editing the current user's password and is separate from the password resets routes at `/password`.

### Adding the Namespaced Passwords Controller & View

Namespaces also move controllers into a matching module in Ruby. This controller will be in a `settings` folder to match the namespace.

> Let's create the controller at `app/controllers/settings/passwords_controller.rb` and start with the `show` action.

Reviewer: Does it need instructions showing how to create this controller? Open to discuss since at this point we might assume users know. (This also relates to the 2 times I mentioned it above,)

Author: I think it's safe to assume they went through the Getting Started guide and understand this?
